Mr. Bennet, owner of the Longbourn estate in Hertfordshire, has five daughters, but his property
is entailed and can only be passed to a male heir. His wife also lacks an inheritance, so his family
faces becoming very poor upon his death. Thus, it is imperative that at least one of the girls marry
well to support the others, which is a motivation that drives the plot.
Pride and Prejudice has consistently appeared near the top of lists of most-loved books among literary
scholars and the reading public. It has become one of the most popular novels in English literature,
with over 20 million copies sold, and has inspired many derivatives in modern literature. For more
than a century, dramatic adaptations, reprints, unofficial sequels, films, and TV versions of Pride and
Prejudice have portrayed the memorable characters and themes of the novel, reaching mass audiences.

In rural England in the early 19th century, Mrs. Bennet attempts to persuade Mr. Bennet to visit Mr. Bingley,
a rich bachelor recently arrived in the neighbourhood. After some verbal sparring with her husband, Mrs. Bennet
believes he will not call on Mr. Bingley. Shortly afterwards, he visits Netherfield, Mr. Bingley's rented residence,
much to Mrs. Bennet's delight. The visit is followed by a ball at the local assembly rooms that the entire
neighbourhood attends.

At the ball, the neighbourhood is introduced to the whole Netherfield party, which consists of Mr. Bingley,
his two sisters, the husband of one of his sisters, and Mr. Darcy, his dearest friend. Mr. Bingley's friendly
and cheerful manner earns him popularity among the guests. He appears attracted to Jane Bennet with whom he dances
twice. Mr. Darcy, reputed to be twice as wealthy, is haughty and aloof, causing a
 decided dislike of him. He declines to dance with Elizabeth, stating that
 she is not attractive enough to tempt him. Elizabeth finds this amusing and jokes about it with her friends.

Mr. Bingley's sisters, Caroline and Louisa, later invite Jane to Netherfield for dinner. On her way there, Jane
is caught in a rain shower and develops a bad cold, forcing her to stay at Netherfield to recuperate, much to
Mrs. Bennet's delight. When Elizabeth goes to see Jane, Mr. Darcy finds himself attracted to Elizabeth stating
she has fine eyes, while Miss Bingley grows jealous, as she herself has designs on Mr. Darcy. Elizabeth herself
is indifferent and unaware of his developing interest in her.


Illustration by Hugh Thomson representing Mr. Collins, protesting that he never reads novels
Mr. Collins, Mr. Bennet's cousin and the heir to the Longbourn estate, visits the Bennet family. He is a pompous,
obsequious clergyman who intends to marry one of the Bennet girls. After learning that Jane may soon be engaged, he
quickly decides on Elizabeth, the next daughter in both age and beauty.

Elizabeth and her family meet the dashing and charming army officer, George Wickham, who singles out Elizabeth.
He says he is connected to the Darcy family and claims Mr. Darcy deprived him of a living a permanent position
as a clergyman promised to him by Mr. Darcy's late father. Elizabeth's dislike of Mr. Darcy is confirmed.

At a subsequent ball at Netherfield, Mr. Darcy asks Elizabeth to dance, and, despite her vow never to dance
with him, she accepts. However, Elizabeth's mother and younger sisters display a distinct lack of decorum.
Mrs. Bennet hints loudly that she fully expects Jane and Bingley to become engaged, and the younger Bennet
sisters expose the family to ridicule by their silliness.

Mr. Collins proposes to Elizabeth. She rejects Collins, to her mother's fury and her father's relief. After
Elizabeth's rejection, Mr. Collins proposes to Charlotte Lucas, a sensible young woman and Elizabeth's friend,
who is already aged 27. Charlotte is grateful for a proposal that guarantees her a comfortable home and a secure
future. Elizabeth is aghast at such pragmatism in matters of love. Shortly afterward, the Bingleys suddenly depart
for London with no plans to return, and it appears that Mr. Bingley has no intention of resuming their acquaintance.
A heartbroken Jane visits her Aunt and Uncle Gardiner in London to raise her spirits.

In the spring, Elizabeth visits Charlotte and Mr. Collins in Kent. Elizabeth and her hosts are invited to Rosings
Park, the imposing home of Lady Catherine de Bourgh, imperious patroness of Mr. Collins and Mr. Darcy's wealthy aunt.
Lady Catherine expects Mr. Darcy to marry her daughter, as planned in his childhood by his aunt and mother.
Mr. Darcy and his cousin, Colonel Fitzwilliam, are also visiting at Rosings Park. Fitzwilliam tells Elizabeth
how Mr. Darcy recently saved a friend, presumably Bingley, from an undesirable match. Elizabeth realises that
the prevented engagement was to Jane and is horrified that Mr. Darcy interfered. Later, Mr. Darcy proposes to Elizabeth,
 declaring his love for her despite her low social connections. She rejects him angrily, firmly stating that
 he is the last person she would ever marry and saying she could never love a man who caused her sister such
 unhappiness; she further accuses him of treating Wickham unjustly. Mr. Darcy brags about his success in separating
 Bingley and Jane and suggests that he had been kinder to Bingley than to himself. He dismisses the accusation
 regarding Wickham sarcastically but does not address it.

Later, Mr. Darcy gives Elizabeth a letter, explaining that Wickham, the son of his late father's steward,
had refused the living his father had arranged for him and was instead given money for it. Wickham quickly
squandered the money and when impoverished, asked for the living again. After being refused, he tried to
elope with Darcy's 15-year-old sister, Georgiana, for her considerable dowry. Mr. Darcy also writes that he
separated Jane and Bingley due to Jane's reserved behaviour, sincerely believing her indifferent to Bingley,
and also because of the lack of propriety displayed by some members of her family. Elizabeth is ashamed by her
family's behaviour and her own lack of better judgement that resulted in blinded prejudice against Mr. Darcy.

Some months later, Elizabeth accompanies the Gardiners on a tour of Derbyshire.
They visit Pemberley, Darcy's estate, after Elizabeth ascertains Mr. Darcy's absence. The housekeeper
there describes Mr. Darcy as kind and generous, recounting several examples of these characteristics.
When Mr. Darcy returns unexpectedly, he is exceedingly gracious and later invites Elizabeth and the Gardiners
to meet Georgiana and Mr. Gardiner to go fishing. Elizabeth is surprised and delighted by their treatment.
Upon meeting, Elizabeth and Georgiana connect well, to his delight. She then receives news that her sister
Lydia has run off with Wickham. She tells Mr. Darcy immediately, then departs in haste, believing she will
never see him again as Lydia has ruined the family's good name.

After an agonising interim, Wickham agrees to marry Lydia. With some veneer of decency restored, Lydia visits the
family and tells Elizabeth that Mr. Darcy was at her and Wickham's wedding. Though Mr. Darcy had sworn everyone
involved to secrecy, Mrs. Gardiner now feels obliged to inform Elizabeth that he secured the match, at great expense
and trouble to himself. She hints that he may have had another motive for having done so, implying that she believes
Darcy to be in love with Elizabeth.

Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy return to Netherfield. Bingley proposes to Jane, who accepts. Lady Catherine, having heard
rumours that Elizabeth intends to marry Mr. Darcy, visits Elizabeth and demands she promise never to accept Mr. Darcy's
proposal. Elizabeth refuses and the outraged Lady Catherine withdraws after Elizabeth demands that she leave for
making insulting comments about her family. Darcy, heartened by his aunt's indignant relaying of Elizabeth's response,
again proposes to her and is accepted. Elizabeth has difficulty in convincing her father that she is marrying for love,
not position and wealth, but Mr. Bennet is finally convinced. Mrs. Bennet is exceedingly happy to learn of her
daughter's match to Mr. Darcy and quickly changes her opinion of him. The novel concludes with an overview of the
marriages of the three daughters and the great satisfaction of both parents at the matches made by Jane and Elizabeth.